Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab. This is
a free, complete course for the CCNA.
If you like these videos, please subscribe
to follow along with the series. Also,
please like and leave a comment, and share the
video to help spread this free series of videos.
Thanks for your help. Also, remember to
sign up via the link in the description
to get all of the lab files for this course, so
you can try it out yourself in packet tracer.
If you want more labs like these, I
highly recommend picking up Boson’s NetSim
for the CCNA, click the link in the
video description to check it out.
It’s a network simulator like packet tracer, but
it’s even better, and it includes all of these
guided labs to not only help you get hands-on
practice configuring and troubleshooting,
but also deepen your understanding of the exam
topics. I used it myself when studying for my
certifications, so I feel confident
about recommending it to all of you.
If you want to get your own copy of NetSim,
please follow the link in the video description.
In this lab we will do some simple IPv6 address
configurations. But there’s something different
in this lab than what I showed in the video.
This network is already running IPv4. R1 and the
PCs are already configured with IPv4 addresses.
We’re not going to remove the IPv4 configurations,
we’re simply going to add IPv6 configurations on
top. This is called a ‘dual-stack’ solution, it’s
one way of transitioning your network from IPv4
to IPv6. You keep IPv4 running, add IPv6 on top,
and then slowly transition to using IPv6
exclusively. So, let’s add IPv6 to this network.
In step 1 we are told to enable IPv6 routing on
R1. IPv4 routing is enabled by default. If you
configure interfaces and routes, the router will
forward IPv4 packets without having to separately
enable IPv4 routing. IPv6 routing, however,
is not enabled by default. However, just to
show you what happens if you don’t enable IPv6
routing, I’m going to skip step 1 until the end.
So let’s go straight to configuring IPv6
addresses on R1. Let’s open the CLI of R1.
ENABLE. CONF T. Let’s configure them in order.
INTERFACE G0/0. IPV6 ADDRESS 2001:DB8:0:1::1/64.
The interfaces are already enabled, because
this is already a functioning IPv4 network,
so we don’t need to use NO SHUTDOWN.
Okay, next interface. INTERFACE G0/1.
IPV6 ADDRESS 2001:DB8:0:2::1/64. One more.
INTERFACE G0/2. IPV6 ADDRESS 2001:DB8:0:3::1/64.
Okay, that’s all for the interface configurations.
In step 3, let’s check the configurations.
DO SHOW IPV6 INTERFACE BRIEF.
These are the addresses we configured on the
interfaces, but also notice that link-local
IPv6 addresses were automatically configured,
too. You’ll learn about these in the next video.
Next up, let’s configure IPv6 addresses on
the PCs. I’ll go on PC1. Click on ‘config’.
And then from this first screen
here, set the IPv6 default gateway,
which should be R1. 2001:DB8:0:1::1. Next,
click on PC1’s FastEthernet0 interface,
and set PC1’s IPv6 address. 2001:db8:0:1::2,
and the prefix length, /64. Next up, PC2.
Again, set the default gateway. 2001:db8:0:2::1.
Then set PC2’s own address. 2001:db8:0:2::2,
/64. Finally, PC3. First set R1 as the default
gateway. 2001:db8:0:3::1. Then PC3’s address.
2001:db8:0:3::2, /64. Okay, now let’s go to step
5 and try some pings. I’ll do some pings from PC1.
First, let’s try to ping PC1’s default gateway,
R1’s G0/0 interface. PING 2001:DB8:0:1::1. Okay,
the ping works. Can PC1 ping another interface
on R1? Let’s check. PING 2001:DB8:0:2::1. Yes,
it can. So, PC1 can ping it’s default
gateway and R1’s interface in another subnet.
Can it ping PC2? Let’s try. PING 2001:DB8:0:2::2.
No, it can’t. Let’s try similar pings from PC2.
First, let’s ping PC2’s default
gateway. PING 2001:DB8:0:2::1. Okay,
that works. How about R1’s G0/0 interface? PING
2001:DB8:0:1::1. Okay, that ping works as well.
How about pinging to PC1? PING 2001:DB8:0:1::2.
Again, the ping between PCs doesn’t work. Why
is that? It’s because I skipped step 1, I didn’t
use the IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING command on R1 yet.
So let’s go back to R1.
Use EXIT to return to global config mode.
And let’s enable it. IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING.
Okay, now let’s go back to PC1 and try
to ping PC2 again. PING 2001:DB8:0:2::2.
Okay, the ping works. So, make sure you
don’t forget the IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING
command when configuring IPv6 on a router.
Just to show that IPv4 is working as well,
I’ll do an IPv4 ping to PC2. PING 192.168.2.2.
Okay, the ping works, so both
IPv4 and IPv6 are working.
Okay, that’s all for this lab. Now let’s take
a look at a lab in Boson NetSim for CCNA.
Okay, here's today's Boson NetSim lab preview.
Actually, this lab isn't from the regular Boson
NetSim for CCNA. It's from Boson's courseware
for CCNA, which they released recently.
It's essentially Boson's course for the CCNA
and it includes an extra set of labs which
you can do in NetSim. So, I've added a link
to Boson's courseware in the description.
So follow that link if you want to check
out Boson's courseware and try it out.
So, the lab we're going to do
is called IPv6 Configuration.
Here is the lab topology. As you can see,
IPv4 is already configured on these routers.
These are the commands you need to know. IPV6
ADDRESS, we covered. IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING,
and there are some others we haven't looked
at yet. These are the IP addresses on each
device. The IPv4 addresses and then the IPv6
addresses, which I assume we will configure soon.
And these are the tasks. Task
1, configure IPv6 addresses.
And Task 2, configure IPv6
between Router1 and Router2.
And then configure IPv6 between Router1
and Router3. Okay, so let's just do Task 1,
or at least part of task 1 for this lab
preview. In this task you will examine the
current network configuration and configure the
appropriate IPv6 addresses on the interfaces.
You will only perform steps on the physical
interfaces shown in the IP addresses table.
Okay, got it. So A, examine the initial network
configuration. Examine the running config
of all routers. Do the IPv4 addresses
assigned to each router interface match
IP addresses shown in the IP addresses
table? Okay, let's quickly check that out.
ENABLE. I don't need CONF T
actually. SHOW RUNNING-CONFIG.
Serial0/0, that looks correct.
How about FastEthernet0/0?
That is correct also. Okay, next I will
open up the CLI of Router2. SHOW RUN.
Here's FastEthernet0/0, and the IP address is
correct, okay. Next up, Router3. ENABLE. SHOW RUN.
So, Serial0/0, that is correct.
Serial0/1 is correct also.
Okay, and finally let's check on Router4.
So, we are checking Serial0/0. That is correct.
Okay, so all of the IP addresses are correct.
What types of IP addresses are
currently assigned to the routers?
What types...IPv4, I guess. These are public IPv4
addresses. I will tell you later in the course
about public versus private IPv4 addresses, but
these are not private addresses. They are public.
What is the theoretical maximum number of unique
IP addresses of this type that can be assigned?
Of this type, I guess they might mean IPv4,
so that is roughly 4 billion, over 4 billion.
Actually, let me check Boson's answers for this
one. So I will scroll down. Under the lab tasks
there are lab solutions. Okay, so the answer
to question 2 was actually, the type is IPv4.
It's not asking specifically which type of
IPv4 address. It means are they IPv4 or IPv6?
Okay so, and I was correct, the maximum number
of unique IP addresses is over 4 billion.
Okay, number 4. Why is there a need to
change this method of IP addressing?
As I covered in the lecture video, there just
aren't enough IPv4 addresses for the modern world,
where everything is interconnected,
everything is connected to the Internet.
We just need more addresses. Okay, verify
IPv4 connectivity between Router3 and Router4
by issuing the ping...okay,
issuing pings between them.
Okay, so let's check. I'm already on Router4,
so I'll ping from here first. PING 180...this
is pinging from Router4 to Router3.
And it works. So the ping from Router3 to Router4
should work as well, but I'll do that anyway.
Okay, looks good. Okay, Part
B. Configure IPv6 addresses.
IPv6 addresses will eventually replace
the IPv4 addresses currently in use today.
What are the expected benefits of this new type
of IP addressing? Okay, so the only benefit I've
introduced so far is that there are many many
many times more IPv6 addresses available than
IPv4 addresses. And really, that's the
main reason, that's the main benefit.
What are some of the major differences?
For example, an IPv6 address is 128 bits,
versus an IPv4 address. There are of course
other differences, but we'll cover those later.
What is the theoretical maximum number?
Okay, it is a huge number that I cannot say.
Let's go down to the answer
and see that once more.
Well here it is. 3.4 times 10 to the power of 38,
which is a just ridiculously
huge number of IP addresses.
Briefly describe some of the techniques that
will allow IPv4 addressing to co-exist with
IPv6 addressing. Okay, well just in this
previous lab I introduced the idea of
'dual-stack', so running both
IPv4 and IPv6 at the same time.
Okay next, enable IPv6 packet forwarding
on Router3 and Router4. Okay, that's easy.
Here on Router3, CONF T. IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING.
And on Router4, CONF T. IPV6 UNICAST-ROUTING.
Okay, finally, I think I'll
end this lab here for now,
configure static IPv6 addresses for Router3's
Serial0/1 interface and Router4's Serial0/0
interface. Refer to the IP addresses table. Okay,
so Router3's Serial0/1, Router4's Serial0/0.
First, on Router3. INTERFACE S0/0.
And the command is IPV6 ADDRESS,
and that will be 2001:1:3:1::1/64. Okay, and that
should be it for Router3. Next, Router4. INTERFACE
S0/0. Actually, wait...okay,
I configured the incorrect
interface on Router3. So I will 'NO' that command
to cancel it out, and let's go to serial0/1.
Use the up arrow and enter the same IPv6
address again. Okay, that's correct. Okay now
Router4. IPV6 ADDRESS 2001:1:3:1::2/64.
Okay so that should be it. Let's try a ping
from Router4 to Router3. So I will PING IPV6,
and now Router3's address, 2001:1:3:1::1.
And the ping works. Okay, looks good. So that is
today's Boson NetSim lab preview. Again, this is a
special lab from Boson's courseware for CCNA. So
if you want to check out Boson's CCNA courseware,
follow the link in the video description. And
you can also download a free sample from Boson.
Before finishing today’s video I want
to thank my JCNP-level channel members.
To join, please click the
‘Join’ button under the video.
Thank you to Magrathea, Njabulo, Benjamin, Deepak,
Tshepiso, Justin, Loki, TheGunguy, Nil, Prakaash,
Nasir, Erlison, Apogee, Wasseem, Marko, Florian,
Daming, Kone, Joshua, Jhilmar, Samil, Ed, Value,
John, Funnydart, Scott, Hassan, Gerrard, Marek,
Velvijaykum, C Mohd, Johan, Mark, Yousif,
Sidi, Boson Software, Charlesetta, Devin, Lito,
Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your
name incorrectly, but thank you so much for
your support. One of you is still displaying as
Channel failed to load, if this is you please
let me know and I’ll see if YouTube can fix it.
This is the list of JCNP-level members at the
time of recording by the way, October 10th 2020,
if you signed up recently and your name isn’t
on here don’t worry, you’ll be in future videos.
Thank you for watching. Please
subscribe to the channel,
like the video, leave a comment, and share the
video with anyone else studying for the CCNA.
If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the
description. I'm also a Brave verified publisher
and accept BAT, or Basic Attention Token, tips
via the Brave browser. That's all for now.